README.md, before:

# ADFS Diagnostic Tracing

### Important notices
---
The script ( ADFS-tracing.ps1 ) is designed to collect information that will help Microsoft Customer Support Services (CSS) troubleshoot an issue you may be experiencing with Active Directory Federation Services or Web Application Proxy Server.
The collected data may contain Personally Identifiable Information (PII) and/or sensitive data, such as (but not limited to) IP addresses; computer names and/or user names.

All data generated by the  script will be stored in a designated folder specified by the user at initialization.
Once the tracing has completed, the script will automatically generate a archive file (zip file), with the server name, date and time. Should for some reasons the archive process fail, all data is located in a subfolder (/temporary) in the specified destination folder.

> This Script does not require an Internet Connection and will at no point automatically send data to Microsoft.  
> Any data collected by this script **must only** be sent to Microsoft as part of an active Support Engagement.  
> Any data you want to send to Microsoft **must only** be transfered through a Secure File Transfer.
>  
>  Access to such transfer tools should be provided by the Microsoft support professional assigned to your support incident.
>  Please discuss this with your support professional and also any concerns you may have.
>  
>  https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/privacy

### Script usage
---
##### Requirements:
- the Script supports ADFS on Windows Server 2012R2 / Windows Server 2016 / Windows Server 2019
- local administrator privileges are required to run the scripts at minimum.
- Preferably the account is also a Domain User
- a miminum of 5GB of free diskspace on the volume for the target folder when running the tracing for a longer period
- on Windows Server 2012R2 it is recommended (not mandatory) to have the Windows Management Framework 5.1 (WMF) aka Powershell 5.0 installed
  You can get the WMF from https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=54616


Download the zip file via the green "code" button and extract the Zip file content to a location on the servers you want to trace.
Ensure that you have the Scriptfile and the folder "helpermodules" in the target location prior from executing the script.

It is recommended to run the script from Powershell Console.

##### Running the Tracing Script interactively:
When executing the Script without any parameters the script will Render a Forms UI and providing you with the following Options:

| Options | Description
| :--------: | :--------- |
| Configuration Only | In this mode only static data will be exported. This is the default scenario even if not enabled|
| Runtime Tracing  | In this mode the script will collect all data available in Configuration Only and enables additional debug traces for http.sys, schannel, kerberos/ntlm and ADFS and DRS Debug Event Tracing |
| include Network Traces  | This option is only available for a runtime trace and you can opt-in if you want to collect a network trace |
| include Performance Counters  | This option is only available for a runtime trace and you can opt-in to collect ADFS performance counters for the duration of the tracing |
| Textbox/Browse | Provide the path to the Destination folder or alternatively you can use the Filebrowser to select the folder where the data will be stored |


##### Running the script from console:
The script accepts four parameters similar to the UI
| Options | Value/Description
| :-------- | :--------- |
| -Path | The absolute path to the folder where the files should be stored. If the parameter is omitted the script will automatically run in interactive mode ignoring the other parameters |
| -TraceEnabled | $true/$false; if omitted the script will prompt you if a network trace should be captured |
| -NetTraceEnabled | $true/$false; if omitted the script will prompt you if a network trace should be captured |
| -PerfCounter | $true/$false; if omitted the script will prompt you if performance counters should be captured |


During runtime and in particular the trace scenario the script will begin pulling initial static data.
It will Pause the execution to give you the time to configure the other servers, if tracing on multiple machines is required.

Once all servers are prepared for tracing you can resume tracing on each of the servers by following the onscreen instructions by pressing the Key combination CTRL+Y
or should you run the script in Powershell ISE a Dialog popup should occur. Click OK here.

The script will then display another message to inform you that the data collection/tracing is running.  
At this time perform the steps to REPRODUCE THE ISSUE you want to capture.  
>Try to reproduce the issue as fast you can to keep the size of the data as small as possible

Once the problem has been reproduced you can stop the collection by pressing CTRL+Y (console) or by clicking OK (ISE)

At this point it will take some time collect the remaining data and to compile the debug traces (if Tracing was enabled).  
So **please be patient** and do not abort the script through Task Manager  
You may also see some additional popup windows appearing. Usually they occur for the MSINFO Collection


When the scripts finished, you can upload the compressed file to the workspace provided by the support engineer.



##### Output File Reference:

| Filename | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| AD FS Tracing-Debug.evtx | contains verbose diagnostics like claim processing details and/or exception details |
| AD FS-Admin.evtx |  ADFS Administrative logs containing high level error and informative events |
| Application.evtx | Windows OS Application eventlogs |
| DRS-Admin.evtx | Device Registration Service event logs  |
| Device Registration Service Tracing-Debug.evtx | Device Registration Service diagnostic events |
| Microsoft-Windows-CAPI2-Operational.evtx | Crypto API Events allowing to analys Certificate Validation issues |
| Security.evtx | Security Eventlogs of the Operating System. Size is limited to maximum 1hour or for the duration of a trace session |
| Microsoft-Windows-WebApplicationProxy-Session.evtx | WAP Debug Event logs* |
| Microsoft-Windows-WebApplicationProxy-Admin.evtx | WAP Admin Event logs* |
| System.evtx | System Event logs |
| Hostname-<ADFSBackEnd/ADFSProxy>-perf_<datetime>.blg | Performance Counter informations for the duration of a trace.  |
| Hostname-ADFS-fileversions.txt | readout of the ADFS binary file versions currently installed  |
| Hostname-Certificates-CA.txt | enumeration of the Intermediate Authentication Certificate Store of the computer  |
| Hostname-Certificates-My.txt | enumeration of the Personal CertificateStore of the computer  |
| Hostname-Certificates-Root.txt | enumeration of the Root CA CertificateStore of the computer  |
| Hostname-Certificates-NTAuth.txt | enumeration of the NTAuth Store of the computer |
| Hostname-Certificates-ADFSTrustedDevices.txt | enumeration of the ADFSTrustedDevices Store of the computer collected after a trace |
| Hostname-environment-variables.txt | Current System Environment Variables registered |
| Hostname-GPReport.html | Group Policies applied to the user running script and the Computer |
| Hostname-hosts.txt | list Hostfile entries |
| Hostname-ipconfig-all.txt | contains TCP/IP  configuration of the network adapters  |
| Hostname-Microsoft.IdentityServer.ServiceHost.Exe.Config | ADFS Service Configuration file |
| Hostname-msinfo32.nfo | MSINFO containing various informations about the OS configuration and installed modules/dlls |
| Hostname-netsh-dnsclient-show-state.txt | informations about DNSSEC and DirectAccess configuration  |
| Hostname-DNSClient-Cache.txt | DNS CLient cache entries for DNS resolved resource |
| Hostname-netsh-http-show-cacheparam.txt | contains http configuration for caching |
| Hostname-netsh-http-show-cachestate.txt | contains http caching status |
| Hostname-netsh-http-show-iplisten.txt | contains http ip listeners if configured  |
| Hostname-netsh-http-show-servicestate.txt | contains a list of currently registered web application endpoints |
| Hostname-netsh-http-show-sslcert.txt | HTTP Binding configuration |
| Hostname-netsh-http-show-timeout.txt | HTTP driver timeout settings |
| Hostname-netsh-http-show-urlacl.txt | URL Reservations in HTTP |
| Hostname-netsh-int-advf-show-global.txt | global firewall setting |
| Hostname-netsh-int-ipv4-show-dynamicport-tcp.txt | IPv4 TCP Port range definition |
| Hostname-netsh-int-ipv4-show-dynamicport-udp.txt | IPv4 UDP Port range definition |
| Hostname-netsh-int-ipv6-show-dynamicport-tcp.txt | IPv6 TCP Port range definition |
| Hostname-netsh-int-ipv6-show-dynamicport-udp.txt | IPv6 TCP Port range definition  |
| Hostname-netsh-winhttp-proxy.txt | output of System Proxy configuration |
| Hostname-NetTCPConnection.txt | contains a list of currently established network connections  |
| Hostname-network.etl | contains a network trace collected during a trace session  |
| Hostname-nltest-trusted_domains.txt  | list of trusted domains the adfs domain trusts |
| Hostname-reg-ciphers_policy_registry.txt | TLS Cipher Configuration deployed via GPOs |
| Hostname-reg-Cryptography_registry.txt | registry export of the TLS/SSL Cryptography config |
| Hostname-reg-NETLOGON-port-and-other-params.txt | export of the netlogon service registry settings  |
| Hostname-reg-NTDS-port-and-other-params.txt | an registry export of NTDS settings properties |
| Hostname-reg-schannel.txt | SCHannel configuration parameters; related to TLS/SSL configuration |
| Hostname-DotNetFramework.txt | .NetFramework version and TLS protocol support  |
| Hostname-route-print.txt | ip routing configuration of the local machine  |
| Hostname-services-running.txt | a list of all currently running services |
| Hostname-tasklist.txt | a list of all running tasks  |
| Hostname-WindowsPatches.htm | contains informations about installed Windows Updates |
| dcloc_krb_ntlmauth.etl | contains kerberos and NTLM debug traces in a binary format |
| http_trace.etl | http driver trace in binary format |
| schannel.etl | schannel (TLS/SSL provider) debug file in a binary format |
| netlogon.bak | netlogon debug log backup file (usually created if the log file itself exceeds 100mb during a longer tracing period |
| netlogon.log | netlogon debug log informations |
| Get-AdfsAccessControlPolicy.txt | contains list of all Access Control Policies currently defined in ADFS |
| Get-AdfsAdditionalAuthenticationRule.txt | Contains details of global MFA claim Rules if configured |
| Get-AdfsApplicationGroup.txt | summary of configured OAUTH2/OpenID application groups |
| Get-AdfsApplicationPermission.txt | a list of configured application permissions fror Oauth2/OpenID client apps |
| Get-AdfsAttributeStore.txt | a list of configured Attribute stores (AD/LDAP/SQL or custom attribute store providers |
| Get-AdfsAuthenticationProvider.txt | a list of al installed authentication providers |
| Get-AdfsAuthenticationProviderWebContent.txt | contains web customization for Authentication providers if configured |
| Get-ADFSAzureMfaAdapterconfig.txt | an export of the Azure MFA Adaper configuration if configured |
| Get-AdfsCertificate.txt | details of the currently configured Certificates for TokenSigning/Decryption and ServiceCommunication |
| Get-AdfsCertificateAuthority.txt | contains the configuration of the ADFS Certificate Enrollment authority in WHFB scenarios |
| Get-AdfsClaimDescription.txt | a list of all Claims descriptions  |
| Get-AdfsClaimsProviderTrust.txt | detailed configuration information of configured Claims Provider |
| Get-AdfsClaimsProviderTrustsGroup.txt | lists Claims Provider trust groups if configured |
| Get-AdfsClient.txt | lists currently registered Oauth2 CLients  |
| Get-AdfsDeviceRegistration.txt | details of the Device Registration settings |
| Get-AdfsDeviceRegistrationUpnSuffix.txt | contains lists of registered Device Registration Domain Suffixes identically to Get-AdfsRegistrationHosts  |
| Get-AdfsDirectoryProperties.txt | a list of discovered UPN Suffixes/Netbios Names allowed to authenticate (with 2019+) |
| Get-AdfsEndpoint.txt | a list of ADFS endpoints enabled/disabled |
| Get-AdfsFarmInformation.txt | a list of all ADFS Farmnodes in a 2016/2019 Farm deployment |
| Get-AdfsGlobalAuthenticationPolicy.txt | Authentication Handler configuration in ADFS |
| Get-AdfsGlobalWebContent.txt | contains informations about the common ADFS Web customization settings |
| Get-AdfsLocalClaimsProviderTrust.txt | a list of local claims provider (AD builtin and LDAP claims provider) |
| Get-AdfsNativeClientApplication.txt | a list of configured OAuth2/OpenID native client apps  |
| Get-AdfsNonClaimsAwareRelyingPartyTrust.txt | a list of non-claims apps that may be published in WAP |
| Get-AdfsProperties.txt | lists the ADFS Service configuration properties |
| Get-AdfsRegistrationHosts.txt | contains lists of registered Device Registration Domain Suffixes |
| Get-AdfsRelyingPartyTrust.txt | output of all relying party trust applications currently configured |
| Get-AdfsRelyingPartyTrustsGroup.txt | lists the Relying Party Trust Group configuration |
| Get-AdfsRelyingPartyWebContent.txt | lists all Relying Party configured web content customizations  |
| Get-AdfsRelyingPartyWebTheme.txt | contains a list of Relying party associated web themes |
| Get-AdfsScopeDescription.txt | Openid Scope definitions |
| Get-AdfsServerApplication.txt | OAUTH2 Server Application configuration detauls  |
| Get-AdfsSslCertificate.txt | currently bound SSL certificates in HTTP |
| Get-AdfsSyncProperties.txt | Contains information about the ADFS Database Sync status in WID deployments |
| Get-AdfsTrustedFederationPartner.txt | * |
| Get-AdfsWebApiApplication.txt | Oauth2/OpenID web API configuration settings |
| Get-AdfsWebApplicationProxyRelyingPartyTrust.txt | output for the WAP Pre-Authentication relying party configuration  |
| Get-AdfsWebConfig.txt | shows currently active default web theme and cookie settings for HomeRealmDiscovery automation |
| Get-AdfsWebTheme.txt | a list of configured ADFS Web Themes |
| Get-ServicePrincipalNames.txt | Contains details about the ADFS Service Account configuration in AD DS |
| Get-WebApplicationProxyApplication.txt | Lists the published applications |
| Get-WebApplicationProxyAvailableADFSRelyingParty.txt | list of available relying parties configured on a federation server|
| Get-WebApplicationProxyConfiguration.txt | Global Web Application Proxy settings |
| Get-WebApplicationProxyHealth.txt | Health status of the Web Application Proxy server |
| Get-WebApplicationProxySslCertificate.txt | binding information for the SSL certificate for federation server proxy |
| HOSTNAME-Microsoft.IdentityServer.ProxyService.exe.config | Proxy Service Configuration file |
| transscript_output.txt | diagnostics/telemetry about the execution of the script |
| LocaleMetaData\ AD FS Tracing-Debug_1033.MTA | ADFS Tracing eventlog in a localized format (system language) |
| LocaleMetaData\ AD FS-Admin_1033.MTA | ADFS Admin eventlog in a localized format (system language)  |
| LocaleMetaData\ Application_1033.MTA | Application eventlog in a localized format (system language)  |
| LocaleMetaData\ Device Registration Service Tracing-Debug_1033.MTA | DRS Tracing eventlog in a localized format (system language)  |
| LocaleMetaData\ DRS-Admin_1033.MTA | DRS Admin eventlog in a localized format (system language)  |
| LocaleMetaData\ Microsoft-Windows-CAPI2-Operational_1033.MTA | CAPI eventlog in a localized format (system language)  |
| LocaleMetaData\ Security_1033.MTA | Security eventlog in a localized format (system language) |
| LocaleMetaData\ System_1033.MTA | System eventlog in a localized format (system language)  |

Commit message:

REL 202306
- add export of clientauthissuer store if an ADFS binding is using it as CTL store  as requested in issue #17
- changed console switch behavior and logic to address issue #16
- added LDAP ETL tracing as optional trace option
- added WID debug error logs to the collection for as long as these logs combined are less than 10MB in size
- replaced MSINFO with "SystemInfo"  to address issues where MSINFO may hang and causing the script to wait and never completing

- updated ReadMe to reflect changes and to

README.md, after:

# ADFS Diagnostic Tracing

### Important notices
---
The script ( ADFS-tracing.ps1 ) is designed to collect information that will help Microsoft Customer Support Services (CSS) troubleshoot an issue you may be experiencing with Active Directory Federation Services or Web Application Proxy Server.
The collected data may contain Personally Identifiable Information (PII) and/or sensitive data, such as (but not limited to) IP addresses; computer names and/or user names.

All data generated by the  script will be stored in a designated folder specified by the user at initialization.
Once the tracing has completed, the script will automatically generate a archive file (zip file), with the server name, date and time. Should for some reasons the archive process fail, all data is located in a subfolder (/temporary) in the specified destination folder.

> This Script does not require an Internet Connection and will at no point automatically send data to Microsoft.  
> Any data collected by this script **must only** be sent to Microsoft as part of an active Support Engagement.  
> Any data you want to send to Microsoft **must only** be transfered through a Secure File Transfer.
>  
>  Access to such transfer tools should be provided by the Microsoft support professional assigned to your support incident.
>  Please discuss this with your support professional and also any concerns you may have.
>  
>  https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/privacy

### Script usage
---
##### Requirements:
- the Script supports ADFS on Windows Server 2012R2 / Windows Server 2016 / Windows Server 2019
- local administrator privileges are required to run the scripts at minimum.
- Preferably the account is also a Domain User
- a miminum of 5GB of free diskspace on the volume for the target folder when running the tracing for a longer period
- on Windows Server 2012R2 it is recommended (not mandatory) to have the Windows Management Framework 5.1 (WMF) aka Powershell 5.0 installed
  You can get the WMF from https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=54616


Download the zip file via the green "code" button and extract the Zip file content to a location on the servers you want to trace.
Ensure that you have the Scriptfile and the folder "helpermodules" in the target location prior from executing the script.

It is recommended to run the script from Powershell Console.

##### Running the Tracing Script interactively:
When executing the Script without any parameters the script will Render a Forms UI and providing you with the following Options:

| Options | Description
| :--------: | :--------- |
| Configuration Only | In this mode only static data will be exported. This is the default scenario even if not enabled|
| Runtime Tracing  | In this mode the script will collect all data available in Configuration Only and enables additional debug traces for http.sys, schannel, kerberos/ntlm and ADFS and DRS Debug Event Tracing |
| include Network Traces  | This option is only available for a runtime trace and you can opt-in if you want to collect a network trace |
| include Performance Counters  | This option is only available for a runtime trace and you can opt-in to collect ADFS performance counters for the duration of the tracing |
| Textbox/Browse | Provide the path to the Destination folder or alternatively you can use the Filebrowser to select the folder where the data will be stored |


##### Running the script from console:
The script accepts four parameters similar to the UI
| Options | Value/Description
| :-------- | :--------- |
| -Path | The absolute path to the folder where the files should be stored. If the parameter is omitted the script will automatically run in interactive mode ignoring other switch parameters |
| -Tracing |  if omitted the script will run in a config only mode ignoring any one of the optional trace switches |
| -NetworkTracing | set this switch to enable network tracing; this only works if -Tracing is provided |
| -PerfTracing | set this switch to enable performance counter collection; this only works if -Tracing is provided |
| -LDAPTracing | set this switch to enable LDAP debug tracing; this only works if -Tracing is provided|

During runtime and in particular the trace scenario the script will begin pulling initial static data.
It will Pause the execution to give you the time to configure the other servers, if tracing on multiple machines is required.

Once all servers are prepared for tracing you can resume tracing on each of the servers by following the onscreen instructions by pressing the Key combination CTRL+Y
or should you run the script in Powershell ISE a Dialog popup should occur. Click OK here.

The script will then display another message to inform you that the data collection/tracing is running.  
At this time perform the steps to REPRODUCE THE ISSUE you want to capture.  
>Try to reproduce the issue as fast you can to keep the size of the data as small as possible

Once the problem has been reproduced you can stop the collection by pressing CTRL+Y (console) or by clicking OK (ISE)

At this point it will take some time collect the remaining data and to compile the debug traces (if Tracing was enabled).  
So **please be patient** and do not abort the script through Task Manager  



When the scripts finished, you can upload the compressed file to the workspace provided by the support engineer.



##### Output File Reference:

| Filename | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| AD FS Tracing-Debug.evtx | ADFS verbose diagnostics/debug events |
| AD FS-Admin.evtx |  ADFS Administrative logs containing high level error and informative events |
| Application.evtx | Windows OS Application eventlogs |
| DRS-Admin.evtx | Device Registration Service event logs  |
| Device Registration Service Tracing-Debug.evtx | Device Registration Service diagnostic events |
| Microsoft-Windows-CAPI2-Operational.evtx | Crypto API Events allowing to analyze Certificate Validation issues |
| Security.evtx | Security Eventlogs of the Operating System. Size is limited to maximum 1hour or for the duration of a trace session |
| Microsoft-Windows-WebApplicationProxy-Session.evtx | WAP Debug Event logs* |
| Microsoft-Windows-WebApplicationProxy-Admin.evtx | WAP Admin Event logs* |
| System.evtx | System Event logs |
| Hostname-<ADFSBackEnd/ADFSProxy>-perf_<datetime>.blg | Performance Counter information's for the duration of a trace.  |
| Hostname-ADFS-fileversions.txt | readout of the ADFS binary file versions currently installed  |
| Hostname-Certificates-CA.txt | enumeration of the Intermediate Authentication Certificate Store of the computer  |
| Hostname-Certificates-My.txt | enumeration of the Personal CertificateStore of the computer  |
| Hostname-Certificates-Root.txt | enumeration of the Root CA CertificateStore of the computer  |
| Hostname-Certificates-NTAuth.txt | enumeration of the NTAuth Store of the computer |
| Hostname-Certificates-ADFSTrustedDevices.txt | enumeration of the ADFSTrustedDevices Store of the computer collected after a trace |
| Hostname-Certificates-CliAuthIssuer.txt | enumeration of the ClientAuthIssuers Store (only if configured CTL store on an ADFS HTTP Binding) |
| Hostname-environment-variables.txt | Current System Environment Variables registered |
| Hostname-GPReport.html | Group Policies applied to the user running script and the Computer |
| Hostname-hosts.txt | list Hostfile entries |
| Hostname-ipconfig-all.txt | contains TCP/IP  configuration of the network adapters  |
| Hostname-Microsoft.IdentityServer.ServiceHost.Exe.Config | ADFS Service Configuration file |
| Hostname-sysinfo.txt | contains base informations about the system  |
| Hostname-netsh-dnsclient-show-state.txt | informations about DNSSEC and DirectAccess configuration  |
| Hostname-DNSClient-Cache.txt | DNS CLient cache entries for DNS resolved resource |
| Hostname-netsh-http-show-cacheparam.txt | contains http configuration for caching |
| Hostname-netsh-http-show-cachestate.txt | contains http caching status |
| Hostname-netsh-http-show-iplisten.txt | contains http ip listeners if configured  |
| Hostname-netsh-http-show-servicestate.txt | contains a list of currently registered web application endpoints |
| Hostname-netsh-http-show-sslcert.txt | HTTP Binding configuration |
| Hostname-netsh-http-show-timeout.txt | HTTP driver timeout settings |
| Hostname-netsh-http-show-urlacl.txt | URL Reservations in HTTP |
| Hostname-netsh-int-advf-show-global.txt | global firewall setting |
| Hostname-netsh-int-ipv4-show-dynamicport-tcp.txt | IPv4 TCP Port range definition |
| Hostname-netsh-int-ipv4-show-dynamicport-udp.txt | IPv4 UDP Port range definition |
| Hostname-netsh-int-ipv6-show-dynamicport-tcp.txt | IPv6 TCP Port range definition |
| Hostname-netsh-int-ipv6-show-dynamicport-udp.txt | IPv6 TCP Port range definition  |
| Hostname-netsh-winhttp-proxy.txt | output of System Proxy configuration |
| Hostname-NetTCPConnection.txt | contains a list of currently established network connections  |
| Hostname-network.etl | contains a network trace collected during a trace session  |
| Hostname-nltest-trusted_domains.txt  | list of trusted domains the adfs domain trusts |
| Hostname-reg-ciphers_policy_registry.txt | TLS Cipher Configuration deployed via GPOs |
| Hostname-reg-Cryptography_registry.txt | registry export of the TLS/SSL Cryptography config |
| Hostname-reg-NETLOGON-port-and-other-params.txt | export of the netlogon service registry settings  |
| Hostname-reg-NTDS-port-and-other-params.txt | an registry export of NTDS settings properties |
| Hostname-reg-schannel.txt | SCHannel configuration parameters; related to TLS/SSL configuration |
| Hostname-DotNetFramework.txt | .NetFramework version and TLS protocol support  |
| Hostname-route-print.txt | ip routing configuration of the local machine  |
| Hostname-services-running.txt | a list of all currently running services |
| Hostname-tasklist.txt | a list of all running tasks  |
| Hostname-WindowsPatches.htm | contains informations about installed Windows Updates |
| dcloc_krb_ntlmauth.etl | contains kerberos and NTLM debug traces in a binary format |
| http_trace.etl | http driver trace in binary format |
| schannel.etl | schannel (TLS/SSL provider) debug file in a binary format |
| ldap.etl | LDAP debug tracing file in a binary format |
| Get-AdfsAccessControlPolicy.txt | contains list of all Access Control Policies currently defined in ADFS |
| Get-AdfsAdditionalAuthenticationRule.txt | Contains details of global MFA claim Rules if configured |
| Get-AdfsApplicationGroup.txt | summary of configured OAUTH2/OpenID application groups |
| Get-AdfsApplicationPermission.txt | a list of configured application permissions fror Oauth2/OpenID client apps |
| Get-AdfsAttributeStore.txt | a list of configured Attribute stores (AD/LDAP/SQL or custom attribute store providers |
| Get-AdfsAuthenticationProvider.txt | a list of al installed authentication providers |
| Get-AdfsAuthenticationProviderWebContent.txt | contains web customization for Authentication providers if configured |
| Get-ADFSAzureMfaAdapterconfig.txt | an export of the Azure MFA Adaper configuration if configured |
| Get-AdfsCertificate.txt | details of the currently configured Certificates for TokenSigning/Decryption and ServiceCommunication |
| Get-AdfsCertificateAuthority.txt | contains the configuration of the ADFS Certificate Enrollment authority in WHFB scenarios |
| Get-AdfsClaimDescription.txt | a list of all Claims descriptions  |
| Get-AdfsClaimsProviderTrust.txt | detailed configuration information of configured Claims Provider |
| Get-AdfsClaimsProviderTrustsGroup.txt | lists Claims Provider trust groups if configured |
| Get-AdfsClient.txt | lists currently registered Oauth2 CLients  |
| Get-AdfsDeviceRegistration.txt | details of the Device Registration settings |
| Get-AdfsDeviceRegistrationUpnSuffix.txt | contains lists of registered Device Registration Domain Suffixes identically to Get-AdfsRegistrationHosts  |
| Get-AdfsDirectoryProperties.txt | a list of discovered UPN Suffixes/Netbios Names allowed to authenticate (with 2019+) |
| Get-AdfsEndpoint.txt | a list of ADFS endpoints enabled/disabled |
| Get-AdfsFarmInformation.txt | a list of all ADFS Farmnodes in a 2016/2019 Farm deployment |
| Get-AdfsGlobalAuthenticationPolicy.txt | Authentication Handler configuration in ADFS |
| Get-AdfsGlobalWebContent.txt | contains informations about the common ADFS Web customization settings |
| Get-AdfsLocalClaimsProviderTrust.txt | a list of local claims provider (AD builtin and LDAP claims provider) |
| Get-AdfsNativeClientApplication.txt | a list of configured OAuth2/OpenID native client apps  |
| Get-AdfsNonClaimsAwareRelyingPartyTrust.txt | a list of non-claims apps that may be published in WAP |
| Get-AdfsProperties.txt | lists the ADFS Service configuration properties |
| Get-AdfsRegistrationHosts.txt | contains lists of registered Device Registration Domain Suffixes |
| Get-AdfsRelyingPartyTrust.txt | output of all relying party trust applications currently configured |
| Get-AdfsRelyingPartyTrustsGroup.txt | lists the Relying Party Trust Group configuration |
| Get-AdfsRelyingPartyWebContent.txt | lists all Relying Party configured web content customizations  |
| Get-AdfsRelyingPartyWebTheme.txt | contains a list of Relying party associated web themes |
| Get-AdfsScopeDescription.txt | Openid Scope definitions |
| Get-AdfsServerApplication.txt | OAUTH2 Server Application configuration detauls  |
| Get-AdfsSslCertificate.txt | currently bound SSL certificates in HTTP |
| Get-AdfsSyncProperties.txt | Contains information about the ADFS Database Sync status in WID deployments |
| Get-AdfsTrustedFederationPartner.txt | * |
| Get-AdfsWebApiApplication.txt | Oauth2/OpenID web API configuration settings |
| Get-AdfsWebApplicationProxyRelyingPartyTrust.txt | output for the WAP Pre-Authentication relying party configuration  |
| Get-AdfsWebConfig.txt | shows currently active default web theme and cookie settings for HomeRealmDiscovery automation |
| Get-AdfsWebTheme.txt | a list of configured ADFS Web Themes |
| Get-ServicePrincipalNames.txt | Contains details about the ADFS Service Account configuration in AD DS |
| netlogon.bak | netlogon debug log backup file (usually created if the log file itself exceeds 100mb during a longer tracing period |
| netlogon.log | netlogon debug log informations |
| Get-WebApplicationProxyApplication.txt | Lists the published applications |
| Get-WebApplicationProxyAvailableADFSRelyingParty.txt | list of available relying parties configured on a federation server|
| Get-WebApplicationProxyConfiguration.txt | Global Web Application Proxy settings |
| Get-WebApplicationProxyHealth.txt | Health status of the Web Application Proxy server |
| Get-WebApplicationProxySslCertificate.txt | binding information for the SSL certificate for federation server proxy |
| HOSTNAME-Microsoft.IdentityServer.ProxyService.exe.config | Proxy Service Configuration file |
| transscript_output.txt | diagnostics/telemetry about the execution of the script |
| Wid \ error<int>.log | WID error logs (only collected if WID Deployments and if the cummulative size of the files is <=10mb |
| LocaleMetaData\ AD FS Tracing-Debug_1033.MTA | ADFS Tracing eventlog in a localized format (system language) |
| LocaleMetaData\ AD FS-Admin_1033.MTA | ADFS Admin eventlog in a localized format (system language)  |
| LocaleMetaData\ Application_1033.MTA | Application eventlog in a localized format (system language)  |
| LocaleMetaData\ Device Registration Service Tracing-Debug_1033.MTA | DRS Tracing eventlog in a localized format (system language)  |
| LocaleMetaData\ DRS-Admin_1033.MTA | DRS Admin eventlog in a localized format (system language)  |
| LocaleMetaData\ Microsoft-Windows-CAPI2-Operational_1033.MTA | CAPI eventlog in a localized format (system language)  |
| LocaleMetaData\ Security_1033.MTA | Security eventlog in a localized format (system language) |
| LocaleMetaData\ System_1033.MTA | System eventlog in a localized format (system language)  |
